refactor: :truck: move "why GitHub" into pre-workshop tasks (#240)
rostools/github-intro: pre-workshop/git-and-github.qmd

{{< include /includes/_github-basics.qmd >}}

## Why learn and use GitHub specifically? {#sec-why-github}

When you're learning something new, it helps to put it into a context.
While we've already covered some of this in the
[syllabus](/overview/syllabus.qmd), we haven't fully addressed probably

> one of the biggest questions people may have: Why GitHub?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one of the biggest questions you may have: Why GitHub?
```
Since the sentence before uses "you"

GitHub is an extremely popular and widely used online platform for

> managing Git repositories. As you just read, Git repositories come with a
> lot of features to work with files and track changes to them. But GitHub
> does much more than that. It can be used for [project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
managing Git repositories. As you read previously, Git repositories come with a
lot of features to work with files and track changes to them. GitHub
does much more than that: It can be used for [project
```

project's repository. We'll create our own GitHub Issues later in this
workshop.

While there are other platforms that do similar things, such as
[GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) and [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/),
GitHub is more widely used than the others and has a much larger
community. So you will be able to find many different resources, tools,
and projects on GitHub that you can use and learn from.

More and more researchers are using GitHub to do their research,
collaborate with others, and share their work. It is an extremely
effective and powerful way to collaborate. And because GitHub is
extensively indexed by search engines, as well as having its own search
engine, it is also a very effective way of making it easier for other
researchers to discover your work and research. It is a great way to
share your research and make it more [open and
accessible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_research).

In order to remain relevant and connected to the current and future
research community, we need to embrace and use tools that improve how we
do our work and how we disseminate our research. And GitHub is one of
these tools.

> So in that context, this workshop is designed as a gentle introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that context, this workshop is designed as a gentle introduction
```

to using GitHub to manage your files related to your research and work.
Before diving into some of the more advanced uses, it's important to

> understand the basics of how GitHub works and how to use it effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
learn about and try out the basics of Git and GitHub works and how to use it effectively.
```
Not sure I love this either, but I tried to get rid of the "understand" to avoid assuming that they will *understand* and move the focus to learning and the practical parts (a.k.a. the exercises of this workshop)
